How powerful are the UNCC's orbital
weapons platforms?
For decades, humanity faced the
relentless onslaught of Covenant forces
eager to genocidely wipe their presence
from the face of the galaxy. To keep the
enemy at bay, the UNC required on
average a 3:1 numerical advantage in
warships to gain victory in battle.
These were grim odds.
>> But there remained one final hope for
holding the line. The orbital weapons
platforms which brought to bear the
largest guns ever built by mankind.
Such capitalclass magnetic accelerator
cannons proved capable of rapidfiring
multi-tonon feric tungsten rounds at an
appreciable percentage of the speed of
light.
Upon impact, such slugs proved capable
of gutting anything but the most heavily
shielded of Covenant capital ships in a
single blow.
But how was this achieved?
Today we shall answer this question by
exploring the inner workings of [music]
these super structures. From the
technology that makes them possible
to the personnel who operate them
and the commanders who wield them in
battle.
This is the true size of the UNC's
orbital [music] weapons platforms.
If you're a fan of Halo and sci-fi, I
can definitely recommend today's
sponsor, Warhammer 40,000 Tacticus. It's
a game that I love that I've been
playing for over 2 years and can't get
enough of it. Tacticus is a mobile game
where you build squads to fight
turn-based battles where abilities,
positioning, line of sight, and
elevation all matter. There are more
than 100 characters from across 20
factions of the Warhammer 40,000 galaxy.
Uh, and each of these comes with their
own specific faction traits, upgrades,
abilities, levels, you name it. The
latest newcomers, for instance, are the
custodians and the Emperor's Children.
And now we have the Leagues of Voton,
which are coming around the corner. It's
an incredibly rich environment to
optimize your builds or just have fun.
But what I love most about Tactus is
that the gameplay is always fresh.
You've got a ton of different modes, be
it themed campaigns, wave-based
onslaught, guild raids, guild wars, PvP
arena fights, tournaments, and all kinds
of special events. The game recently
celebrated its 3-year anniversary, and
that ushered in a huge wave of revamped
mechanics, reworked economies, and
quality of life improvements. The new
mythic tier, for instance, now lets you
push your favorite characters even
further and brings with it unique relics
that can completely change how they and
your team play. And now there's an
official PC version of the game to play
it out on the big screen. Having
personally beaten all the campaigns and
unlocked most of the characters I'm
playing almost daily, I can honestly say
that Tacticus is a game for me and I
think it'll be a game for you. So,
please consider supporting the channel
by pausing the video now to give
Tacticus a download by scanning the QR
code above or clicking the link in the
description below. Enjoy and I'll see
you out there.
Orbital weapons platforms are a
classification of satellites which have
been militarized by the UNC typically
for the protection of static locations.
The deployment and maintenance of such
assets is administered by the orbital
defense command, a subgroup of the air
force. However, these OWPs often find
themselves assigned to [music] joint
task forces where they might fall under
control of the Navy. As to the nature of
the systems in question, these range
widely in shape, [music] size, and
function.
On one end of the spectrum are small
unmanned satellites which measure about
5 to 25 m in length.
These are capable of hosting
sophisticated [music] observation and
communications packages.
However, their size limits [music] them
to only basic weapons systems like
missile pods for remote or automated
use. Though not the most formidable on
their own, such OWPS nonetheless [music]
benefit from being relatively cheap and
easy to deploy.
As such, they can be found just about
[music] anywhere, from remote colonial
outposts, where they often act as the
main form of protection to the inner
planets where they might be nothing more
than a footnote in a wider defense
network.
All manner of other satellites [music]
exist whose increasing size and
complexity expands the utility of these
platforms. On the far end of the
spectrum are the massive multicometer
manned space stations. Such orbital
weapons platforms host a variety of
facilities [music] and can specialize
for different offensive, defensive and
support [music] roles. Most prominent
among them are the stations which host
capital class magnetic accelerator
cannons. These are the deadliest big
guns of the UNC arsenal. With yields
measuring in the megat tons [music] and
even gigatons, a single round can strip
the shielding off a Covenant capital
ship and completely decimate any lesser
vessel.
Such salvos can be unleashed multiple
times a minute, leading to devastating
results for any target caught in its
crosshairs.
Thus, do they serve as the cornerstone
for the defense of humanity's most
important worlds.
In this role, the Monton class is among
the most common. From tip to tail, it
measures about 1,300 m tall with a
habitation ring roughly 600 m in
diameter. The entire structure is coated
in duro steel armor with subermal
materials to protect from radiation and
debris.
The main armament of this [music]
station is a central MAC imp placement
powered by an onboard fusion reactor and
liquid metal capacitance cells.
Secondary armaments include seven M606
goalkeeper point defense guns and a
complement of spacecraft.
Its crew consists of about 150 air force
and navy personnel with the ability to
host over 100 marines at full strength.
The Erod class is [music] its big
brother. This Goliath measures 2,000 m
tall with a habitation ring about 800x
400 m. Adding further to its impressive
appearance is the use of titanium A
battle plate armor. Typically reserved
for military warships.
>> Within these reinforced structures are
formidable weapons and facilities.
Chief among them is a super Mac imp
placement whose twin set of extended
barrels can fire accelerated feric
tungsten slugs a measurable percentage
of the speed of light at full charge.
However, so great are the power needs
for firing and inertial compensation
that even enlarged onboard reactors are
not enough.
Thus, such error class stations are
actually linked to groundbased reactors
for proper operation.
As secondary weapon systems, the usual
array of options is available in the
form of point defense cannons, [music]
aircraft, and marines.
Each of these orbital weapons platforms
may be deployed on their own. However,
UNFC doctrine typically groups them into
battle clusters composed of three
stations. The redundancy allows each
station to host specialized modules to
better round out the capabilities of the
group while being positioned to offer
mutual support to its brethren.
Multiple battle clusters in turn are
joined into a defensive [music] grid
meant to provide more comprehensive
planetary defense. Given the heavy
investment cost of such systems, the
specific number and type of platforms
which are present varies greatly.
Minor defense grids, for instance, may
only include a single Monton class
platform, which is reinforced by cheaper
torpedo launchers, attack craft
stations, and ground support facilities.
More important colonial worlds such as
Meridian, Camber, and New Carthage
feature at least a handful of MAC
equipped battle clusters in orbit.
The most robust defense grids will be
found around the inner worlds. Reach,
for instance, featured an array of 20
orbital defense platforms, the majority
of which were erod supermax
with a large host of additional ground,
air, and fleet assets.
Earth meanwhile saw one of the greatest
concentrations of firepower yet
assembled in the form of some 300 MAC
equipped platforms.
These were reinforced by a wider battle
grid which spanned the soul system and
which was defended by the home fleet.
With this overview in mind, let's now
take a closer look at the internal
workings of one of these orbital weapons
platforms.
This is Cairo station.
>> Designed by naval architects and
manufactured by Vosper Engineering on
Luna.
Its development was part of a wave of
massive defense investments around
Earth. Spurred on by the human covenant
war.
Construction of Cairo station itself
began in 2550 with an operational date
of September 14th 2552.
On approach to the station, one will be
impressed by the magnitude of its size,
especially when viewed alongside the
swarms of drones, drop ships, and
starships which traverse its zone of
control.
Circling the station, we see its major
components sharply silhouetted against
the stars with the eastern Mediterranean
36,000 km below. These include the main
gun assembly split into the upper, mid,
and lower sections around which is then
attached the habitation ring. We can
inspect each in turn.
The upper boom stands just over 800 m
tall and is classified as a Mark 5 model
14D4A1
superheavy coil system. Much of the
assembly is actually support
infrastructure dedicated to managing the
massive power, heat and inertial forces
of this weapon.
The MAC barrel is far smaller and finds
itself aligned with the vertical axis of
the station's center of gravity. Here it
employs asynchronous linear induction
motor or ALIM technology to accelerate a
multi-tonon feric tungsten slug up to
several kilometers/s
depending on charge.
Opening up a section of the barrel, we
can see how this is achieved. Across its
10 m diameter are closely wound coils
through which electricity is passed to
induce a magnetic force upon a metallic
projectile.
Along the way, shielding mattresses and
specialized jackets protect the
integrity of the system.
Here, injected nitrogen gas electrified
into plasma and shaped by lasers can
also be used to guide the round without
the need for contact with a physical
rail, greatly reducing muzzle wear.
When the station is ready to fire, an
autoloader system retrieves a Mac round
from storage and feeds it into the
breach of the accelerator.
The ALIM coils then power up to launch
the round from the muzzle at hyper
velocities.
Between firing cycles, the system is
reset by way of a discharge and
realignment carriage which clears out
any mechanical, electrical, and thermal
aberrations. Thus, is the weapon ready
to fire again?
With hundreds of rounds on board, the
fireworks can [music] go on for hours.
However, an accelerated Mac round is
just one part of the physics equation.
Of equal importance is dealing with the
byproducts of this massive transfer of
energy.
Waste heat is one such output which if
left unattended can degrade or destroy
equipment and personnel. Such issues are
a particular risk in the small closed
systems of space vessels which lack the
convenient heat sinks of terrestrial
environments.
Thus, engineers have taken great care to
install efficient cooling coils whose
purpose is to evacuate heat from the
immediate area of generation. From there
it will be transferred to heat storage
and radiation systems for safe recycling
or dissipation.
However, such processes are relatively
slow and during periods of heavy
activity, heat can more rapidly be
dumped by jettisoning superheated
coolant materials.
Without such passive and active thermal
management systems in place, an [music]
orbital platform would gradually cook
itself alive.
Yet such risks pale in comparison to the
dangers imposed by another law of
physics, namely the conservation of
momentum, which dictates that the force
exerted upon the ejected Mac round will
have an equal and opposite [music]
effect upon the station. Without solving
this problem, the entire platform would
be violently deorbited with every round
fired. [music]
To this end, huge inertial dampers are
located around the base of the Mac
barrel with adaptive connection points
linking it to the surrounding [music]
superructure.
These are by far the most sophisticated
systems on the platform [music] whose
existence has only recently been made
possible by the culmination of decades
of pioneering research. As can be
imagined, the dampers are a vital system
whose maintenance is of utmost
importance to prioritize.
But while such large inertial mechanisms
do the bulk of the heavy lifting when it
comes to controlling the platform's
movement, other systems also assist in
such efforts. For instance, large
compensation thrusters help counteract
some of the residual gun recoil, while
an array of maneuvering thrusters help
to modify the overall position and
rotation of the platform.
And finally, smaller adjustment
thrusters and reaction wheels are used
for fine attitude controls when aiming
the weapon.
Beneath the upper [music] boom section
comes the central boom.
It serves multiple purposes.
The first is to link the main gun
assembly to the surrounding habitation
ring using soft connection points to
further manage recoil.
Within such structural members are
integrated heavy lift elevators and mac
round conveyors.
These lead to the centrallylo storage
bays and the fire control center which
houses the automated Mac loaders and
service terminals.
Directly beneath them is a lower hanger
primarily used by maintenance teams and
service drones.
And finally to the rear of the central
boom is the primary power station.
It consists of a dutyium powered fusion
reactor of the same class as those found
aboard UNSC warships.
Such similarities mean that if the
station's reactor is damaged, power
systems can actually be charged from a
docked warship or vice versa.
Nearby are located the related fuel
storage and power management systems.
Moving on, we can visit the other end of
Cairo station.
Here is located the roughly 500 m long
lower boom.
Its primary role is to house stacks of
massive liquid metal capacitor cells for
[music] storing and modulating energy.
While they do not have the same power
density as traditional batteries, they
prove superior for this use case given
their ability to far more rapidly
discharge bursts of energy while
suffering fewer degradation and
temperature issues.
Across the rest of the lower boom are
additional components associated with
the power distribution, thermal
management and control systems.
Now we come to the habitation ring.
It is here that one will find all the
major facilities of the station which
are manned by the crew.
The structure is arranged in a mirrored
pattern along the port [music] and
starboard sides of the platform. For
improved navigation, each quadrant of
the ring [music] is assigned an
alphabetical and color designation.
Access between quadrants meanwhile is
facilitated by way of a tram system with
control being administered by security
stations located at the major vertices.
Now let us review the key areas of these
quadrants [music] starting from a high
level.
The bow section includes
an upper bridge for overall command and
control.
A lower communications center to manage
the [music] eyes and ears of the station
and adjoining living quarters with crew
cabins, gyms, infirmaries, [music] and
wreck areas.
The four wings include
an upper deck with commons, mesh halls,
and armories,
a mid deck with hangers and cargo bays,
and [music] a lower deck with supply
racks and mac round storage.
The starboard and [music] port sections
include
a ship docking bay with umbilical
airlocks for personnel and material.
An external cargo storage [music] space
for staging and warehousing goods.
an internal shipping center for managing
the flow of materials through airlocks
[music] into the station
and flanking life pod tubes.
The aft wings include
an upper deck with commons, armories and
storage,
a mid deck with hangers and cargo bays,
and a lower deck with additional
storage.
The specific arrangements of these
components are modular with
specializations available to meet the
needs of each battle cluster. For
instance, the aft wing of the Cairo held
fighters
while the Malta held interceptors and
the Athens held maintenance vessels.
With this perspective in mind, now let
us take a closer look at each of these
in turn from the perspective of a new
arrival to the station.
We can begin with the arrival of a UNCC
frigot.
On approach, the ship will have matched
course with the station and slowly eased
in for docking in coordination with the
traffic control team.
Once in place, clamps, bridges, and
utility umbilicals will be extended to
mate the two vessels. Safety checks
ensure that the hardpoint connections
and vacuum seals are all clear.
>> At this point, the crew will be able to
begin their transfer. Roger, contact.
>> Upon exiting the last of the airlocks,
new arrivals will make their way along
the corridor of the docks towards the
four wings.
To gain access, they will have to pass
through a security checkpoint where
guards can screen personnel and
belongings.
Upon being cleared and potentially being
assigned an escort, individuals can now
access the insides of the wing. For
civilians, this may mean entering the
scenic commons area where personnel are
free to mingle amidst the trees and
vistas. For marines and soldiers, this
may mean heading towards the armories
along the inner hull where gear can be
checked in for maintenance or upgrade.
And for air force staff, this may mean
descending to the lower decks where
ships rest in the hanger bays.
All of these areas can be traversed by
foot. However, new arrivals may expedite
their journey by boarding the tram line
through the nearest terminal. This will
now convey them across the wing towards
the bow section. At the tram terminal,
another security station is present
[music] to control access into the next
area. For most personnel, this will
involve receiving clearance to access
the crew living quarters in the lower
decks. Only specific ranks or special
guests will be allowed to enter the
upper decks of the command bridge. The
bridge is filled with workstations
staffed [music] by naval or air force
officers in charge of communications,
navigation, engineering, and weapons.
At the very front of the room is a
command deck with a hologram plinth for
the display of additional view screens.
During combat operations, the entire
bridge will be sealed with extra
bulkheads raised into place and guards
at the ready.
Thus, we have seen how the UNFC's
orbital weapons platforms stand ready to
safeguard mankind's most precious
worlds. They are truly a sight to
behold.
Join us next time [music] as we explore
how orbital weapons platforms operate in
the thick of combat.
To support the channel, consider heading
over to our Patreon to participate in
polls, catch script previews, and get HD
downloads of all our art.
We owe a huge debt to the current
patrons for funding the channel and to
our researchers, writers, and [music]
artists for making this episode
possible. We certainly couldn't have
done it without this team and this
community. So, be sure to like and
subscribe for more content and check out
these other related episodes.
See you in the next one.